---

<!-- Please do not edit this file, it is generated. -->
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "random_password Ephemeral Resource - terraform-provider-random"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  -> If the managed resource doesn't have a write-only argument available for the password (first introduced in Terraform 1.11), then the password can only be created with the managed resource variant of random_password https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs/resources/password.
  Generates an ephemeral password string using a cryptographic random number generator.
  The primary use-case for generating an ephemeral random password is to be used in combination with a write-only argument in a managed resource, which will avoid Terraform storing the password string in the plan or state file.
---

# random_password (Ephemeral Resource)

-> If the managed resource doesn't have a write-only argument available for the password (first introduced in Terraform 1.11), then the password can only be created with the managed resource variant of [`random_password`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs/resources/password).

Generates an ephemeral password string using a cryptographic random number generator.

The primary use-case for generating an ephemeral random password is to be used in combination with a write-only argument in a managed resource, which will avoid Terraform storing the password string in the plan or state file.

## Example Usage

```python
# DO NOT EDIT. Code generated by 'cdktf convert' - Please report bugs at https://cdk.tf/bug
from constructs import Construct
from cdktf import TerraformStack
class MyConvertedCode(TerraformStack):
    def __init__(self, scope, name):
        super().__init__(scope, name)
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `length` (Number) The length of the string desired. The minimum value for length is 1 and, length must also be >= (`min_upper` + `min_lower` + `min_numeric` + `min_special`).

### Optional

- `lower` (Boolean) Include lowercase alphabet characters in the result. Default value is `true`.
- `min_lower` (Number) Minimum number of lowercase alphabet characters in the result. Default value is `0`.
- `min_numeric` (Number) Minimum number of numeric characters in the result. Default value is `0`.
- `min_special` (Number) Minimum number of special characters in the result. Default value is `0`.
- `min_upper` (Number) Minimum number of uppercase alphabet characters in the result. Default value is `0`.
- `numeric` (Boolean) Include numeric characters in the result. Default value is `true`. If `numeric`, `upper`, `lower`, and `special` are all configured, at least one of them must be set to `true`.
- `override_special` (String) Supply your own list of special characters to use for string generation.  This overrides the default character list in the special argument.  The `special` argument must still be set to true for any overwritten characters to be used in generation.
- `special` (Boolean) Include special characters in the result. These are `!@#$%&*()-_=+[]{}<>:?`. Default value is `true`.
- `upper` (Boolean) Include uppercase alphabet characters in the result. Default value is `true`.

### Read-Only

- `bcrypt_hash` (String, Sensitive) A bcrypt hash of the generated random string. **NOTE**: If the generated random string is greater than 72 bytes in length, `bcrypt_hash` will contain a hash of the first 72 bytes.
- `result` (String, Sensitive) The generated random string.

<!-- cache-key: cdktf-0.20.8 input-719e735ef83655b71fc2608255ea0efefac2a66aabbfd002e924abd1a90acd87 -->