---
page_title: "Provider: Random"
description: |-
  The Random provider is used to generate randomness.
---


<!-- Please do not edit this file, it is generated. -->
# Random Provider

The "random" provider allows the use of randomness within Terraform
configurations. This is a *logical provider*, which means that it works
entirely within Terraform's logic, and doesn't interact with any other
services.

Unconstrained randomness within a Terraform configuration would not be very
useful, since Terraform's goal is to converge on a fixed configuration by
applying a diff. Because of this, the "random" provider provides an idea of
*managed randomness*: it provides resources that generate random values during
their creation and then hold those values steady until the inputs are changed.

Even with these resources, it is advisable to keep the use of randomness within
Terraform configuration to a minimum, and retain it for special cases only;
Terraform works best when the configuration is well-defined, since its behavior
can then be more readily predicted.

Unless otherwise stated within the documentation of a specific resource, this
provider's results are **not** sufficiently random for cryptographic use.

For more information on the specific resources available, see the links in the
navigation bar. Read on for information on the general patterns that apply
to this provider's resources.

## Resource "Keepers"

As noted above, the random resources generate randomness only when they are
created; the results produced are stored in the Terraform state and re-used
until the inputs change, prompting the resource to be recreated.

The resources all provide a map argument called `keepers` that can be populated
with arbitrary key/value pairs that should be selected such that they remain
the same until new random values are desired.

For example:

```python
# DO NOT EDIT. Code generated by 'cdktf convert' - Please report bugs at https://cdk.tf/bug
from constructs import Construct
from cdktf import Fn, Token, TerraformStack
#
# Provider bindings are generated by running `cdktf get`.
# See https://cdk.tf/provider-generation for more details.
#
from imports.aws.instance import Instance
from imports.random.id import Id
class MyConvertedCode(TerraformStack):
    def __init__(self, scope, name):
        super().__init__(scope, name)
        server = Id(self, "server",
            byte_length=8,
            keepers={
                "ami_id": ami_id.string_value
            }
        )
        aws_instance_server = Instance(self, "server_1",
            ami=Token.as_string(Fn.lookup_nested(server, ["keepers", "ami_id"])),
            tags={
                "Name": "web-server ${" + server.hex + "}"
            }
        )
        # This allows the Terraform resource name to match the original name. You can remove the call if you don't need them to match.
        aws_instance_server.override_logical_id("server")
```

Resource "keepers" are optional. The other arguments to each resource must
*also* remain constant in order to retain a random result.

`keepers` are *not* treated as sensitive attributes; a value used for `keepers` will be displayed in Terraform UI output as plaintext.

To force a random result to be replaced, the `taint` command can be used to
produce a new result on the next run.
<!-- cache-key: cdktf-0.19.0 input-481e7e1d76d2dd9651b63f9879c24c591e04b1977a58673585b6ad657bd0e1fc 556251879b8ed0dc4c87a76b568667e0ab5e2c46efdd14a05c556daf05678783-->