---
page_title: "random_password Resource - terraform-provider-random"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  -> If the managed resource supports a write-only attribute for the password (first introduced in Terraform 1.11), then the ephemeral variant of random_password https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs/ephemeral-resources/password should be used, when possible, to avoid storing the password in the plan or state file.
  Identical to random_string https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs/resources/string with the exception that the result is treated as sensitive and, thus, not displayed in console output. Read more about sensitive data handling in the Terraform documentation https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/state/sensitive-data.
  This resource does use a cryptographic random number generator.
---

# random_password (Resource)

-> If the managed resource supports a write-only attribute for the password (first introduced in Terraform 1.11), then the ephemeral variant of [`random_password`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs/ephemeral-resources/password) should be used, when possible, to avoid storing the password in the plan or state file.

Identical to [`random_string`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs/resources/string) with the exception that the result is treated as sensitive and, thus, _not_ displayed in console output. Read more about sensitive data handling in the [Terraform documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/state/sensitive-data).

This resource *does* use a cryptographic random number generator.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "random_password" "password" {
  length           = 16
  special          = true
  override_special = "!#$%&*()-_=+[]{}<>:?"
}

resource "aws_db_instance" "example" {
  instance_class    = "db.t3.micro"
  allocated_storage = 64
  engine            = "mysql"
  username          = "someone"
  password          = random_password.password.result
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `length` (Number) The length of the string desired. The minimum value for length is 1 and, length must also be >= (`min_upper` + `min_lower` + `min_numeric` + `min_special`).

### Optional

- `exclusions` (Set of String) Supply your own set of exclusions to check against the generated password. If the generated password contains any of the exclusions, it will be regenerated until it does not contain any excluded substrings. Exclusions are case-insensitive by default , but can be configured as case-sensitive via the `exclusions_case_sensitive` argument.
- `exclusions_case_sensitive` (Boolean) Determines if the exclusions list should be case-sensitive. Default value is `false`.
- `keepers` (Map of String) Arbitrary map of values that, when changed, will trigger recreation of resource. See [the main provider documentation](../index.html) for more information.
- `lower` (Boolean) Include lowercase alphabet characters in the result. Default value is `true`.
- `min_lower` (Number) Minimum number of lowercase alphabet characters in the result. Default value is `0`.
- `min_numeric` (Number) Minimum number of numeric characters in the result. Default value is `0`.
- `min_special` (Number) Minimum number of special characters in the result. Default value is `0`.
- `min_upper` (Number) Minimum number of uppercase alphabet characters in the result. Default value is `0`.
- `number` (Boolean, Deprecated) Include numeric characters in the result. Default value is `true`. If `number`, `upper`, `lower`, and `special` are all configured, at least one of them must be set to `true`. **NOTE**: This is deprecated, use `numeric` instead.
- `numeric` (Boolean) Include numeric characters in the result. Default value is `true`. If `numeric`, `upper`, `lower`, and `special` are all configured, at least one of them must be set to `true`.
- `override_special` (String) Supply your own list of special characters to use for string generation.  This overrides the default character list in the special argument.  The `special` argument must still be set to true for any overwritten characters to be used in generation.
- `special` (Boolean) Include special characters in the result. These are `!@#$%&*()-_=+[]{}<>:?`. Default value is `true`.
- `upper` (Boolean) Include uppercase alphabet characters in the result. Default value is `true`.

### Read-Only

- `bcrypt_hash` (String, Sensitive) A bcrypt hash of the generated random string. **NOTE**: If the generated random string is greater than 72 bytes in length, `bcrypt_hash` will contain a hash of the first 72 bytes.
- `id` (String) A static value used internally by Terraform, this should not be referenced in configurations.
- `result` (String, Sensitive) The generated random string.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import random_password.password securepassword
```

### Limitations of Import

Any attribute values that are specified within Terraform config will be
ignored during import and all attributes that have defaults defined within
the schema will have the default assigned.

For instance, using the following config during import:
```terraform
resource "random_password" "password" {
  length = 16
  lower  = false
}
```

Then importing the resource using `terraform import random_password.password securepassword`,
would result in the triggering of a replacement (i.e., destroy-create) during the next
`terraform apply`.

### Avoiding Replacement

If the resource were imported using `terraform import random_password.password securepassword`,
replacement could be avoided by using:

1. Attribute values that match the imported ID and defaults:

    ```terraform
    resource "random_password" "password" {
      length = 14
      lower  = true
    }
    ```


2. Attribute values that match the imported ID and omit the attributes with defaults:

    ```terraform
    resource "random_password" "password" {
      length = 14
    }
    ```


3. `ignore_changes` specifying the attributes to ignore:

    ```terraform
    resource "random_password" "password" {
      length = 16
      lower  = false

      lifecycle {
        ignore_changes = [
          length,
          lower,
        ]
      }
    }
    ```

    **NOTE** `ignore_changes` is only required until the resource is recreated after import,
    after which it will use the configuration values specified.
