---
page_title: "random_string Resource - terraform-provider-random"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The resource random_string generates a random permutation of alphanumeric characters and optionally special characters.
  This resource does use a cryptographic random number generator.
  Historically this resource's intended usage has been ambiguous as the original example used it in a password. For backwards compatibility it will continue to exist. For unique ids please use random_id id.html, for sensitive random values please use random_password password.html.
---

# random_string (Resource)

The resource `random_string` generates a random permutation of alphanumeric characters and optionally special characters.

This resource *does* use a cryptographic random number generator.

Historically this resource's intended usage has been ambiguous as the original example used it in a password. For backwards compatibility it will continue to exist. For unique ids please use [random_id](id.html), for sensitive random values please use [random_password](password.html).

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "random_string" "random" {
  length           = 16
  special          = true
  override_special = "/@£$"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `length` (Number) The length of the string desired. The minimum value for length is 1 and, length must also be >= (`min_upper` + `min_lower` + `min_numeric` + `min_special`).

### Optional

- `keepers` (Map of String) Arbitrary map of values that, when changed, will trigger recreation of resource. See [the main provider documentation](../index.html) for more information.
- `lower` (Boolean) Include lowercase alphabet characters in the result. Default value is `true`.
- `min_lower` (Number) Minimum number of lowercase alphabet characters in the result. Default value is `0`.
- `min_numeric` (Number) Minimum number of numeric characters in the result. Default value is `0`.
- `min_special` (Number) Minimum number of special characters in the result. Default value is `0`.
- `min_upper` (Number) Minimum number of uppercase alphabet characters in the result. Default value is `0`.
- `number` (Boolean, Deprecated) Include numeric characters in the result. Default value is `true`. **NOTE**: This is deprecated, use `numeric` instead.
- `numeric` (Boolean) Include numeric characters in the result. Default value is `true`.
- `override_special` (String) Supply your own list of special characters to use for string generation.  This overrides the default character list in the special argument.  The `special` argument must still be set to true for any overwritten characters to be used in generation.
- `special` (Boolean) Include special characters in the result. These are `!@#$%&*()-_=+[]{}<>:?`. Default value is `true`.
- `upper` (Boolean) Include uppercase alphabet characters in the result. Default value is `true`.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The generated random string.
- `result` (String) The generated random string.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import random_string.test test
```

### Limitations of Import

Any attribute values that are specified within Terraform config will be
ignored during import and all attributes that have defaults defined within
the schema will have the default assigned.

For instance, using the following config during import:
```terraform
resource "random_string" "test" {
  length = 16
  lower  = false
}
```

Then importing the resource using `terraform import random_string.test test`,
would result in the triggering of a replacement (i.e., destroy-create) during
the next `terraform apply`.

### Avoiding Replacement

If the resource were imported using `terraform import random_string.test test`,
replacement can be avoided by using:

1. Attribute values that match the imported ID and defaults:
    ```terraform
    resource "random_string" "test" {
      length = 4
      lower  = true
    }
    ```

2. Attribute values that match the imported ID and omit the attributes with defaults:
    ```terraform
    resource "random_string" "test" {
      length = 4
    }
    ```

3. `ignore_changes` specifying the attributes to ignore:
    ```terraform
    resource "random_string" "test" {
      length = 16
      lower  = false

      lifecycle {
        ignore_changes = [
          length,
          lower,
        ]
      }
    }
    ```

    **NOTE** `ignore_changes` is only required until the resource is recreated after import,
    after which it will use the configuration values specified.